# **IoT Programming and Big Data**

## **Course Objectives**

* Appreciate the software needs of an IoT project.

* Understand how data is managed in an IoT framework.

* Apply software solutions for different systems and Big Data to your IoT concept designs.

* Create Python scripts to manage large data files collected from sensor data and interact with the real world via actuators and other output devices.

## **Course Syllabus**

### **[Module 1: Introduction to Big Data from the IoT](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fSpYKUghwXwm-wdml6XzfP2UhipnJSbKX27Y9Ny55kY/edit?usp=sharing)**

* Develop an understanding of the data generated by IoT, and how it is collected.

* Recognise the problems involved with gathering data and some approaches for addressing these problems.

* Gain an overview of data storage.

* Appreciate programming languages as time-saving tools for manipulating data, and know which languages will be used in this course.


### **[Module 2: Data at the Edge]()**

* Understand the process of data acquisition.

* Be able to analyse where to process data using Edge, Fog or Cloud.

* Understand how, when, and where to bundle and store IoT data.


### **[Module 3: Data in the Cloud]()**

* Understand the storage, analysis and cleaning of data.

* Understand why data is stored and processed in the Cloud.

* Appreciate the costs and benefits of live data versus stored data.


### **[Module 4: Obtaining, Visualising and Analysing Data]()**

* Learn how to use R and RStudio through guided analysis of a large dataset.

* Understand some methods for cleaning, summarising and visualising a large dataset.

* Construct and use a simple predictive model for predicting the location of a device using signal strength and orientation.


### **[Module 5: Summary and Assessment]()**

* Apply your knowledge to IoT design considerations.

* Complete your assessments.
